Incorporating Hidde de Vries' comments (#469)
openui/open-ui: research/src/pages/documentation/get-involved.mdx

#### How to write a spec

- Create Component Spec: component-spec-template.mdx which will involve specifying the anatomy, behavior and states of a component. Things you should consider in your Component spec:

>   - are you creating a new selector? It should be defined in a similar fashion to the [selectors spec](https://drafts.csswg.org/selectors/) in CSS. If you are adding a pseudo class selector (e.g. :hover), or a pseudo-element selector (e.g. ::before) it should also be described.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - are you creating a new selector? It should be defined in a similar fashion to the [selectors spec](https://drafts.csswg.org/selectors/) in CSS. If you are adding a pseudo class selector (e.g. `:hover`), or a pseudo-element selector (e.g. `::before`) it should also be described.
```

  - Are you adding a new element to HTML? If so it should
    - be described in this spec with the same scope as the HTML spec, though feel free to make it more accessible to understand as a user or a web developer.
    - You’ll also need to add default rendering rules. You can use CSS for this.

>     - Make sure to include a consideration for both the browser rendering, and the AT rendering. If you can’t represent your component in ARIA you should also add new ARIA prose to your spec. New elements should also have HTML Accessibility API Mappings (AAM) described, and document conformance requirements (for validators/conformance checkers) specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Make sure to include a consideration for both the browser rendering, and the AT rendering. If you can’t represent your component with existing ARIA semantics you should also include proposed accessibility features to your spec. New elements should also specify any necessary HTML Accessibility API Mappings (AAM), and document conformance requirements (for validators/conformance checkers).
```

#### What makes a good review

Good external review takes time, kindness, and empathy. You’ll be reaching out to people who you may or may not have met, asking for input, waiting for them to be available, responding with enthusiasm, incorporating their feedback, and checking if you got it right.

#### How to get review

> Look up the W3C group you need review from, find the chair or another administrator, email them, and ask for advice. Or, if you don’t feel comfortable doing that, you can ask Greg (gwhitworth@salesforce.com) or Simon (simon@bocoup.com) to talk through who to talk to, and make an introduction. We recommend getting input from the following groups:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Look up the W3C group you need review from, find the chair or another administrator, email them, and ask for advice. Or, if you don’t feel comfortable doing that, you can ask Greg (gwhitworth@salesforce.com) or Simon (simon@bocoup.com) to determine who to talk with next, and make an introduction. We recommend getting input from the following groups:
```

> - ARIA: Add an item to the ARIA WG weekly meeting agenda. Attend the ARIA weekly meeting and share your component accessible interaction model. Get input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ARIA: Add a [new issue to the ARIA GitHub repo](https://github.com/w3c/aria/issues), and request it be labelled for an agenda topic. Attend the ARIA weekly meeting and share your component accessible interaction model. Request input.
```

  <p class="todo">
    Add some guidance on how to develop the accessibility model of a new control based on prior art

>     in ARIA. Also add information on where to raise issues, e.g: authoring practices task force -

Reviewer: a new issue should be created for this so it can be worked on.  @smhigley this seems something we could take on

Author: @scottaohara - Understand the intent of the comment. Otherwise, no additional changes seem to be required here. Does this otherwise need to delay this particular PR

Reviewer: nope. i've already opened a new issue.  this can be resolved

- Architectural coherence: After incorporating feedback from other standards groups, we seek high-level input from TAG about how the component fits into the technical architecture of the web platform.

>   You can open an issue [here](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can open a [W3C Tag design review issue](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues).
```

> - Browser Implementers: It's a good idea at this point to start getting feedback from folks who might be implementing support for this (either directly or via the runtime), and get their reactions. You can find some guidance on who to talk to at https://wpc.guide/who-to-talk-to/#browser-engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Browser Implementers: It's a good idea at this point to start getting feedback from folks who might be implementing support for this (either directly or via the runtime), and get their reactions. You can find some guidance on who to talk to at the [Web Platform Contribution Guide](https://wpc.guide/who-to-talk-to/#browser-engines).
```

### 3.1 Determine outcome: Open UI Component, Graduated Spec, or Both

> The first step of Stage 3 is to determine if this feature is going to be added to the platform directly by browser engine implementers, or implemented in JavaScript, HTML and CSS as a web Component. For implementation in a web browser, it's often the case that you might first implement a Web Component. So often the answer may be both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step of Stage 3 is to determine if this feature is going to be added to the platform directly by browser engine implementers, or implemented in JavaScript, HTML and CSS as a Web Component. For implementation in a web browser, it's often the case that you might first implement a Web Component. So generally the answer may be both.
```

If you’re creating a new element you’ll also need to add default rendering rules for the element to the user agent style sheet here: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/rendering.html#rendering

Every spec should have a consideration for both the browser rendering, and the Assistive Technology (AT) rendering. You should include an example of how to render your new widget. If you can’t represent your widget in ARIA you should extend ARIA with new semantics.

If you have added a new HTML element, it will need to be added to the HTML Accessibility [API Mappings (AAM) spec](https://w3c.github.io/html-aam/), which provides the mappings from ARIA to HTML.

> For new elements, you’ll also need to add a new document that adheres to the conformance requirements (for validators/conformance checkers) to ARIA in HTML: https://w3c.github.io/html-aria/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For new HTML features, you’ll also need to consider whether the features' semantics would be negatively impacted by authors overwriting their implicit ARIA semantics.  These requirements would then need to be documented in the conformance requirements (for validators/conformance checkers) in the [ARIA in HTML specification](https://w3c.github.io/html-aria/).
```
